Today we will talk about our own turnover capital.
First of all, you remember that capital can be both private and borrowed.
In this case, we will talk only about our own capital, not about the capital that is attracted to the enterprise.
Secondly, all capital can be represented as the main and the turnover.
As you remember, the main capital is the hard-to-realize assets,
such as land, buildings, infrastructure, equipment, non-material assets and other basic resources.
We have already talked about this part of capital in the previous topics.
Today we will talk about the turnover part of capital.
The turnover part of capital is the hard-to-realize assets, such as reserves,
debit debt, short-term financial investments and money.
You remember that all these parts of capital are represented in the left part of the balance sheet,
where we have the assets.
The turnover part of capital takes up a large share of the enterprise.
Each has its own share, but in general, their share is quite large.
This is the most mobile part of capital,
and the state of this part of capital depends on the results of the enterprise's economic activity
and the financial state of the enterprise.
It is very important for the enterprise to know whether it has turnover capital,
what state it is in, and how it works.
The state of the enterprise's own turnover capital depends on the stability of the financial state of the enterprise.
And, first of all, it depends on the optimal distribution of funds at the stage of the process of the turnover.
You know that at the stage of the process of the turnover,
the supply of the enterprise is included, then production, and finally, the production surplus.
And at each stage of the turnover, there is its own turnover capital.
The financial state of the enterprise depends on the optimal distribution of their shares at the stages of the turnover.
If the state of the enterprise is not optimal, it starts to go crazy.
At the optimal distribution, the enterprise feels great.
At the first stage, where the supply is, there are reserves.
This is a very important part of the asset.
At the stage of production surplus, there is a debt and cash.
This is how the enterprise's own turnover capital is distributed at the stages of the turnover.
The financial state of the enterprise depends on the distribution of the funds at the stages of the turnover.
It is impossible to find the optimal state of the enterprise and say that all enterprises should adhere to it.
The size of the investment in each sector of the turnover depends on the sectoral characteristics of the enterprises.
There are enterprises that require very large material reserves,
where material production is concentrated to a very high degree.
There are enterprises with a long production cycle, where the largest part of the production is unfinished.
Thus, depending on the sectoral characteristics of the enterprise, the distribution of the funds will be one way or another.
If you want to know whether the distribution of the funds of your enterprise is optimal,
you need to look at the optimal distribution of the funds for the sector that belongs to your enterprise.
Then compare your enterprise with this optimal distribution.
The turnover assets can be distributed depending on their liquidity level.
You should remember that the balance of the assets is based on the liquidity level,
that is, on the speed of their transformation into monetary form.
The higher the liquidity level, the faster it becomes monetary form,
the lower the line is in the balance of the enterprise.
The turnover assets are divided by liquidity level into slow-to-achieve, fast-to-achieve
and the fastest-to-achieve or the most liquid assets.
The slow-to-achieve assets include the reserves of the finished production, raw materials and unfinished production.
Whole warehouses are filled with the reserves that are needed for production.
Today we will talk about this separately, specifically about why the reserves are needed for the enterprise.
We are only saying that the reserves are related to the slow-to-achieve assets.
Moreover, some reserves can be so slow-to-achieve that they become non-liquid.
The fast-to-achieve turnover assets include the debt and the funds on deposits.
The debt, as you remember from our previous lectures,
is the funds that other enterprises owe us.
First, there are contractual relations, according to which the return of the debt is determined.
Second, each enterprise is actively working on the return of the debt.
Therefore, the debt is returned to the enterprise more or less quickly.
The funds on deposits are dependent on the enterprise.
The enterprise deposits the free funds on the deposit accounts in the banks.
It can deposit them or not, depending on the purpose and the need it has.
If it has money, it cannot deposit it now,
or it needs to be saved for the near future, it deposits it on the deposits.
But you should remember that the deposits are temporary.
They cannot be taken back at any time.
You agree with the banks, you specify the time for which you cannot use these funds.
If you need the funds at any time, you should not deposit them,
but leave them on your account, and then use them at any time.
The most liquid turnover assets are the funds and short-term market securities.
The funds already exist, so to say that they need to be converted into money is a certain condition.
They already exist on your account.
In some cases, it can be a foreign currency, which can be converted into any other currency,
including the Russian currency.
It will take some time, though.
Short-term market securities are also an interesting document.
You can quickly convert these securities into money if the term of their termination is approaching,
or if you have a need to get rid of them and convert them into money.
You use them to get a certain percentage of these securities.
Assets can also be divided into stable and unstable.
Stable assets are the main assets and some of the turnover assets that are at an unchanged level during the year.
As you remember, the year is a period during which the accounting period is held.
Some forms of assets change their form during this period, and some remain unchanged.
Some remain unchanged, and the rest of the assets are called unstable assets.
They change their form.
In addition to assets, you should remember that passives are also represented in the balance sheet.
Passives are the sources through which the enterprise funds are formed.
Depending on the source of the formation, passives are divided into their own and borrowed ones.
Remember that the own ones are those that belong to the enterprise,
and the borrowed ones are those that the enterprise borrows from the market.
Banks, other enterprises, commercial partners, in any case, these are not its funds.
They are taken for a certain period, and after a certain period they should be returned to those who own them.
Passives include their own funds and long-term loans and loans.
These are permanent passives.
A short-term passive includes short-term loans and loans,
and some of the long-term loans and loans that will be issued during this period,
that is, during the year.
It is very important for an enterprise to manage assets and passives correctly.
What does it mean to manage them correctly?
As we know from previous lectures,
assets and passives are characterized by certain periods of their use.
Assets should be replenished in order to function properly.
Passives are the sources that replenish and form assets.
The most important thing here is that the time should match.
That is, the period of time when one form moves to another should match.
This period of time, tracking of this period,
and the coordination of assets and passives will represent the operational management of assets and passives.
If we imagine a complex management system,
it includes the transformation of the current financial needs into a negative amount
in order to ensure that the enterprise can function steadily due to the funds it has,
the acceleration of the turnover of funds in the enterprise,
and the choice of the appropriate type of policy of operational management of the current assets and passives.
Next, we will look at all these stages of complex operational management.
We will consider how the enterprise uses them,
which of them is more important, which is less important,
and what should be the main emphasis in your business.
So, the first stage is the transformation of the current financial needs into a negative amount.
First, we should say what the current needs are and how they are covered.
The enterprise constantly needs to purchase stocks,
to implement the production process,
and every day it needs to cover certain financial expenses.
Where to get the money to cover these current needs?
In fact, the enterprise uses various sources of money,
but among all these sources, it is possible to highlight a certain sequence of means of using to cover the current needs.
First of all, the enterprise uses its own money.
Why? Because they are free, they are already its own.
No one needs to borrow them, you don't have to pay anything for them,
you don't have to worry about their return,
you just need to use your own money effectively.
In any case, business does not allow to relax,
but nevertheless, it is the least evil.
I would even say that it is not evil, but a kind of good news in terms of using money.
So, in the first place, the enterprise always uses its own money.
And what to do if you don't have enough of your own money?
It may be that there is nothing wrong with it,
it is bad only if you are overly involved in borrowing money,
but the small use of borrowed money, moderate use of borrowed money,
is, on the contrary, a sign of effective management of the enterprise's finances.
In the second place, if you don't have enough of your own money,
you can get a creditors' debt.
A creditors' debt is what you owe to your partners.
They provided you with the means to pay off your debt.
For example, they provided you with raw materials from which you will continue to produce products.
But you were provided with raw materials with a payment deadline.
You didn't have to pay for it right away, you didn't have to make a prepayment,
you didn't have to pay in fact, you were given a payment deadline.
During the deadline period, you got a creditors' debt.
You got reserves that you can use and that you don't spend your own money on.
This is the simplest, easiest form of using borrowed money.
Of course, it's not free, although you may not have to pay interest on the contract.
You should remember that free raw materials can only be found in a mousetrap.
In any case, the price of raw materials is already set for the interest for using the means you get.
But what if even a creditors' debt is not enough?
What if there are cash outages that need to be covered, but there is not enough money for them?
What should you do? Then the enterprise uses short-term lending.
The enterprise starts to contact the bank in order to get the borrowed money for a short period of time and then use it.
As you remember, the short-term lending in the modern banking system of Russia is not more than one year.
Perhaps, the short-term lending is less, like overdraft loans, which can be up to a month.
In any case, it's short-term lending.
Perhaps, short-term loans.
As you remember, the loan differs from a credit because you borrow money not from the bank, but from another business partner.
He lends you his short-term funds.
It's a loan.
And if you lend them to the bank, it's a credit.
We talked about it in the previous lectures.
You remember it well, I just reminded you a little bit about it.
So, if we need short-term lending, we can use one or another source of their income.
Different sources have different colors in terms of the favorability of their use.
Some use it more favorably, others use it less favorably.
It's an emotional color, but you should know it, because the relationship between a businessman and the world is not only a contractual relationship, but also a relationship painted with human emotions.
The most favorable sources of short-term lending, as we said, are commercial loans from suppliers.
Everyone in the business is doing it today, those who trade, who supply raw materials.
It's a norm of business.
So, using commercial loans, increasing the credit debt, is a normal phenomenon.
It doesn't cause any tensions that can exist between businessmen.
The second source is receiving money from their employees.
I want to draw your attention to the specificity of this form of money, which is used in our country.
This form is called a salary delay for employees.
A businessman doesn't pay his salary on time, and the money is used for business, for the period of salary delay.
It's the employees of the enterprise that are currently lending to the businessman.
The peculiarity of this form is that it's absolutely free, because I haven't met a single businessman who would pay his salary with interest for a non-temporary payment.
So, it's a free form of credit, unlike commercial loans, where it's invested in the price, or bank loans, where it's expressed in the interest rate.
But on the other hand, the salary debt can't be increased to infinity.
The thing is that the employees went to work for the sake of receiving the salary, and they are ready to suffer for some time from not receiving the salary,
in order to make the enterprise better, to make it work better, and to improve their relations.
But they are not ready to never receive the salary.
So, there are certain limits.
Even if a businessman managed to not pay his salary for some time, the situation at the enterprise worsens.
The staff is shrinking, because not everyone is ready to work without money.
The staff is shrinking.
The employees are losing their jobs, the less qualified ones are coming, the employees are more nervous,
people are more interested in the payment of the salary, than in the return of the active participation in the production process.
Anyway, this source is limited in time, because there is a period when people agree not to receive the salary,
and after that period, the businessman risks being left alone at the enterprise, which, of course, is not part of his plans.
So, sooner or later, he stops using this source.
So, this source, even though it exists, and, unfortunately, it is used, is quite limited.
So, this is the life-saving circle, which can be used for a very short period of time,
if you know that your situation at the enterprise will improve, and you will restore your situation,
because this is what the employees hope for, when they agree to suffer for some time without the payment of the salary.
There is another source.
Another source is the debt payment.
The state's taxes were not paid in time.
There is a stick in two ends.
On the one hand, yes, you received the money, which you can use,
but on the other hand, the state is a machine that does not tolerate the lack of repayment of debts.
The state, in any case, demands the payment of taxes, and, moreover, will impose fines on their payment.
Therefore, if the profitability of the business is not higher than the fines that the state has to pay for the short-term payment of taxes,
then it is best not to use this source.
And only if the business is extremely profitable and the profitability of the business is very high,
then the enterprise is entitled to pay taxes.
At the same time, it understands that it will still have to pay more fines,
but to some extent it has to do it, because it has no other means.
This is what we referred to as a favorable source of short-term money.
But there is also a negative one.
The money could be used to increase the stock excessively.
Everything that is excessive is not good.
There should be an optimal amount of stocks at the enterprise, optimal for optimal work.
An excessive stock is not used.
The excess of stocks is not used, it is a dead weight, and the capital is frozen.
The frozen capital is not used, and most importantly, it is needed for other purposes.
You could use it as a borrowed capital if you need to pay for it, you need to return it.
Therefore, excessive stock is harmful for the enterprise.
And the enterprise should strictly ensure that it does not have excess stocks.
We will talk about this today, when we talk about stocks and determine the optimal amount of stocks.
But at this moment you should understand that the enterprise should have an optimal amount of stocks.
There is a lot of capital freezing, and there is a lack of stocks.
There is a rhythmical violation.
Imagine an auto-vacuum that produces a car, and there is everything, but no steering wheel.
This car cannot be sold, this car cannot be further promoted in the production chain.
There is not a single small component.
The car is considered to be unassembled.
Therefore, in order not to violate the production chain, there should be stocks.
But again, the optimal amount.
The next negative point that can be associated with the use of turnover capital is the provision of excessive payments to clients.
The fact is that both our enterprise receives goods loans from the suppliers of raw materials,
and we participate in this trade chain, we ourselves provide goods loans to those who buy our goods.
Today, the business is arranged in such a way that a lion's share of the goods that move in the trade chain is provided with a payment in the form of a goods loan.
We are provided with raw materials, and we provide our products to those who buy from us.
The most important thing here is not what the goods loan is providing, but not to violate its optimal amount.
Do not make the provision excessive.
Because if you start to provide excessive payment in the amount or for a very long time, you will lose your turnover capital.
You will have problems that you do not need.
Therefore, each enterprise independently decides for itself what kind of payment delay to make to its partners.
Without a payment delay, there is a risk of losing a partner in general.
This is also very bad.
If you can not implement your product, it does not matter that you do not release it.
It does not matter that the enterprise has stopped.
Therefore, the payment delay should be given, because if you do not provide it, your competitors will provide it.
Payment delay is not such a gesture of charity.
This is the current situation of the market.
You need to be the same on the market as your competitors.
If your competitors provide goods loans in a competitive struggle, you have to provide it.
Therefore, we assume that any enterprise will and must provide goods loans.
But it should not provide it without restrictions.
To the right and to the left, in an unlimited amount, for an unlimited time.
It will simply lose its money.
Everything should be in moderation.
If we sum up all the needs of the enterprise, which arises in it at the current time,
we will get the current financial needs.
From what we have just discussed, it is clear that the current financial needs are equal to the sum of reserves
plus the debt.
That is, you need reserves for production and you need a debt to provide goods loans to your partners.
These are your needs.
These are two quantities.
And what reduces your current financial needs?
The debt is the amount of credit that you have provided to your trading partners.
Therefore, this amount should be reduced.
This is the saving circle that your partners provide to you.
There are two very important assumptions in this formula.
On the one hand, we see the need that is determined by your business.
On the other hand, the help that the market provides to you, based on the market situation.
Hence, the interests of the enterprise.
For example, the enterprise is interested in reducing its reserves.
We have already discussed that the enterprise is absolutely not profitable to reduce its reserves.
It is profitable to reduce them, but not below the optimal value.
Because reducing them below the optimal value causes failures in the enterprise's operation.
And failures are losses.
That is, the benefit from reduction is leveled off by the loss from failures.
Therefore, the enterprise tries never to reduce the value of its reserves below the optimal value.
The enterprise is interested in reducing its debt.
Of course.
There is no special meaning in giving your own funds to your trading partners.
Business is not charity.